>> James: Okay, so hopefully by now
everyone has had a little bit of a chance
to play around with moving around in
the directory structure of your system.
Had a chance to use ls, and
pwd, and the cd commands.
And hopefully, also,
all of you are following along with
the GitHub Notes that I put up.
So you can consult back to
everything that I've showed so far.
So some examples of poking
around on the directory.
So an important thing on a Unix system
as well is these special directories.
Which include things like.
And dot and tilde.
So, dot dot so means the parent directory.
So, you can put this kind of
anywhere in the path, like here.
I mean, this directory,
I can use "cg" space dot dot,
now I'm in the parent of that, I can
do it again, I'm in the parent of that,
or I can do something like cd ../..
And now I'm gonna skip up two directories.
Can see what's there.
Or, maybe I want to cd ../../../ and
then go into another directory.
I can also do that.
>> James: And now I'm somewhere else.
>> James: So another important thing
is dot, which you sometimes need.
For example, if you have a command in
the current directory that you wanna run,
then you've gotta do ./ because
otherwise commands have to be in your
path, which we'll talk about later.
Also, you can put a ./ anywhere
in a path and it does nothing,
so for example if I use the Head
command which I'll talk about later.
I can do ././././././unix.md which is
the same as doing just unix.md because
./ means the current directory.
So it's like a little cycle
that points back to itself.
Another important thing to know about is
tilde which means your home directory.
So if I type cd ~,
I'm gonna go to my home directory.
There we are.
You can also navigate around
from your home directory.
So if I go to cd ~/media/music/vaporwave,
my vaporwave directory.
I can also go to, if I want to edit
a file without having to cd into that
directory you can pass in the full path.
So can edit my bashrc file, like this.
That's what tilde means.
Some more examples of that.
Another fun command that you can use to
experiment and play around with dot, and
dot dot, and tilde,
is the cat command, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Did you cover pwd so
people are going around everywhere?
>> James: Yeah we did.
We covered cdpwt and ls.
That's sure.
Also another fun thing about cd is if
you get lost somewhere in the directory
structure and you don't know
where you are you can type cd and
it puts you back in your home directory.
So it's the same thing as doing cd ~.